Logistics solutions provider, City-Link Express (M) Sdn Bhd, recently took delivery of a large fleet of new Isuzu trucks. City-Link, one of Isuzu Malaysia Sdn Bhd’s key customers, had purchased the 277 units of various light duty, medium duty and prime mover trucks via Isuzu dealer Jumbo Arena Sdn Bhd.

This is not the first time City-Link has taken delivery of a large fleet of Isuzu trucks, having done so in previous years as well. And with this latest truck delivery, City-Link Express is also the first Malaysian customer of Isuzu’s to own the Isuzu Safety Plus trucks. The safety platform was recently launched by Isuzu Malaysia in early September.

[Image: Isuzu Malaysia_Koji Nakamura_CEO]

“We are extremely delighted to deliver the new Isuzu trucks to City-Link Express, one of our long-term valued customers in Malaysia. This delivery signifies Isuzu’s commitment in supporting City-Link Express on achieving its business objectives despite the current environment,” said Koji Nakamura, Chief Executive Officer, Isuzu Malaysia.
“Our trucks are built with the Isuzu S.E.E Technology at its core, which represents safety, economy and environment to offer all our customers like City-Link Express the reliability, efficiency and versatility that they demand to help increase their business sustainability and output,” he added.

[Image: Isuzu ELF_Isuzu Safety Plus Platform]

A portion of the new light duty trucks delivered are equipped with the Isuzu Safety Plus platform. These are equipped with safety features including Anti-lock Braking System (ABS), Electronic Brake-force Distribution (EBD), Anti-Slip Regulator (ASR) and Supplemental Restraint System (SRS) Airbag.
City-Link Express was founded in 1979 and is Malaysia’s first courier company. Today, it is one of the leading integrated express, last mile delivery companies with a prominent brand foothold. The delivery of the new Isuzu trucks is expected to further strengthen City-Link Express’ existing fleet and also support the growth of its business operations in Malaysia.

[Image: City-Link Express (M) Sdn Bhd]

“The exponential growth of e-commerce and increased consumer spending online that we have seen in recent years have spurred the demand for courier delivery services,” commented Ronald Tan, Chief Executive Officer, City-Link Express. “City-Link Express has been a trusted courier delivery company for decades and we continue to be fully committed to quality services by ensuring our customers’ goods reach the intended destinations on-time and in good condition,” he added.
To support its growing business volume, City-Link Express requires a fleet of trucks that are reliable, safe and easy-to-maintain. “In our line of business, we need trucks that can go the distance with us, as well as on having attentive and quick-to-respond aftermarket support. These are very important as we are in the business of speed and meeting delivery deadlines safely. We have been using Isuzu trucks for 10 years now and have been very satisfied on all these aspects, thus the decision to procure the additional trucks,” he shared.

Tan also added that Isuzu offers City-Link Express the most cost-effective solutions. Its trucks are fuel-efficient and the cost for parts, services and maintenance are competitively priced, which helps the company reduce its operational costs. Further, the company finds the black box feature useful in tracking its trucks for better efficiency and safety.

”The user-friendliness and drivability of Isuzu trucks make our drivers’ job easier too. This results in less fatigue and downtime, and increased productivity and efficiency. In return, this has helped us in retaining the good drivers we have, as well as in attracting new recruits,” he said.

A vehicle handover ceremony was held recently at Dataran City-Link Express in Jenjarom, Selangor. “We are very honoured to know that City-Link Express has been reaping the benefits of using Isuzu trucks and has expressed great satisfaction with our brand. This handover truly highlights a business relationship built upon Isuzu’s brand promise, product quality and strong aftermarket support. We are highly appreciative of the level of trust City-Link Express continues to give us,” said Koji Nakamura.

