Unless you borrow money to invest, the potential losses are limited. On the other hand, if you find a high quality business to buy (at the right price) you can more than double your money! Take, for example GDEX Berhad (KLSE:GDEX). Its share price is already up an impressive 115% in the last twelve months. Unfortunately the longer term returns are not so good, with the stock falling 22% in the last three years.

While markets are a powerful pricing mechanism, share prices reflect investor sentiment, not just underlying business performance. By comparing earnings per share (EPS) and share price changes over time, we can get a feel for how investor attitudes to a company have morphed over time.

During the last year, GDEX Berhad actually saw its earnings per share drop 15%.

This means it's unlikely the market is judging the company based on earnings growth. Since the change in EPS doesn't seem to correlate with the change in share price, it's worth taking a look at other metrics.

We doubt the modest 0.5% dividend yield is doing much to support the share price. However the year on year revenue growth of 26% would help. We do see some companies suppress earnings in order to accelerate revenue growth.

You can see below how earnings and revenue have changed over time (discover the exact values by clicking on the image).

KLSE:GDEX Earnings and Revenue Growth April 2nd 2021
It's probably worth noting that the CEO is paid less than the median at similar sized companies. It's always worth keeping an eye on CEO pay, but a more important question is whether the company will grow earnings throughout the years. So we recommend checking out this free report showing consensus forecasts

A Different Perspective
We're pleased to report that GDEX Berhad shareholders have received a total shareholder return of 116% over one year. That's including the dividend. That certainly beats the loss of about 0.7% per year over the last half decade. We generally put more weight on the long term performance over the short term, but the recent improvement could hint at a (positive) inflection point within the business. It's always interesting to track share price performance over the longer term. But to understand GDEX Berhad better, we need to consider many other factors. Take risks, for example - GDEX Berhad has 1 warning sign we think you should be aware of.

Of course GDEX Berhad may not be the best stock to buy. So you may wish to see this free collection of growth stocks.

Please note, the market returns quoted in this article reflect the market weighted average returns of stocks that currently trade on MY exchanges.