The up and coming logistics company experienced a solid eleven fold increase in delivery volume.

GONE are the days where we had to visit a physical store to purchase our necessities. Online shopping has become a huge part of our lives, with it being more convenient for consumers to purchase and receive their goods - from the comfort of their home.

That said, up and coming logistics start-up J&T Express recently concluded its 2019 10.10-mega sales fiesta with a solid elevenfold increase in delivery volume as compared in 2018. The logistics company also successfully recorded a 98.2% completion rate for its deliveries during that period. This marks a huge milestone for J&T Express as it sailed through the storm to improve their shipping services, while having been around for only a year.

Their fervency is timely as a recent survey revealed that Malaysia has the longest e-commerce delivery time in South-east Asia. However, to J&T Express, what is viewed as a problem, is an opportunity for growth. This is especially true with the rise and development of the digital economy even as major e-commerce platforms such as Shopee rally with back-to-back sales campaigns during this year end period with 9.9, 10.10, 11.11 and 12.12. More retailers are also making the move online to boost sales in this digital era to supplement their brick and mortar stores and channels.

According to the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC), e-commerce in Malaysia is expected to increase to 8.9% by 2020 as affordable smartphones and internet data are easily accessible. Not to mention, e-marketplaces are quickly becoming a lifestyle destination for shoppers as it moves away from pure trading by incorporating interactive shopping experiences through entertainment such as gaming, point collection, live broadcasts streaming and more.

J&T Express employees are ready to serve customers with a premium quality service.

With mega discounts for branded items on e-marketplaces, consumers were seen clicking away and J&T Express worked round the clock to deliver those parcels nationwide including Sabah and Sarawak.

As a fairly new but long-term player in the e-commerce support industry, this economic expansion runs parallel with J&T Express’ growth. In a short period, J&T Express has scaled up to 343 drop-points nationwide and now provides job opportunities to over 7,000 employees across 15 operating gateways - making J&T Express more accessible to all Malaysians and businesses.

J&T Express also estimates a 10 times surge in volume for the upcoming 11.11 sales period as compared to last year’s 11.11 sale. Last year, the challenge for J&T Express was to deliver large amounts of parcel within the promised time frame – which is two to four days within the Peninsular region and two to five days for orders in East Malaysia. Back then, having been in the industry for only three months, J&T Express still managed to deliver 97% of the parcels within the stipulated delivery time frame. Out of the 97%, 71% was delivered the next day within Klang Valley and the remaining 26% was completed within three days across Klang Valley and East Malaysia. All these were made possible due to a strategic transportation schedule and efficient sorting system.

In addition, J&T Express expects to be handling up to 25% more parcels in a single day this 11.11 as compared to 2018’s 11.11 sale. In order to cope with the surge in orders, J&T Express has developed a master plan derived from key learnings, and through consultation and input from stakeholders like Shopee.

J&T Express works closely with one of its stakeholders – Shopee to receive feedback from buyers and sellers to improve on its services.

This includes order forecasts which helps J&T Express to grow and allocate higher resource such as manpower, infrastructure, commercials, outsourced air cargo capacity service and more. This would see employees including transit hubs working round the clock on rotation, hundreds of trucks being deployed and on-the-go 24 hours a day with additional drop-point’s dispatchers working, even on weekends.

This allows J&T Express to plan ahead and achieve a more efficient and speedy delivery for the upcoming 11.11 fiesta sale. While being confident that it will be able to provide a premium quality service, the logistics company is striving to cross borders and push boundaries in the industry.

However, the bigger challenge still remains – the ability to process and deliver the increase in amounts of parcel to customers living in the rural areas with incomplete addresses or infrastructures.

J&T Express Malaysia chief executive officer Roy Zeng said, “We are confident with the growth of J&T Express in Malaysia. With e-commerce growing so rapidly in Malaysia, the pie is still big. By banking on this sector to propel our growth, J&T Express is ready and confident to conquer the 11.11 courier express delivery.”

Commenting on J&T Express’ growth and foresight, Shopee regional managing director Ian Ho said, “E-commerce marketplaces cannot exist without strong infrastructure and commitment from the e-commerce support industries. This includes third-party logistics players like J&T Express. By working closely with all our stakeholders, to create a feedback loop from both buyers and sellers, this helps to highlight specific areas for improvement.”

He added, “These steps will help the entire e-commerce industry to move forward even as Shopee and its partners such as J&T Express work to provide great service to our buyers and sellers. Together with J&T Express, we are all geared up for the 11.11 Big Sale. Malaysians can expect only the best from us in terms of deals, promos and, of course, shipping!”